[documentation]: Formalise the release process (#3807)
hyperledger/iroha: docs/source/lts_selection.org

#+TITLE: On selecting versions as LTS candidates
#+AUTHOR: Aleksandr Petrosyan
#+DATE: 12-08-2023
* About

In the interest of preserving the engineering resources, it is in our
interests to limit the scope of post-release support. If one has
several versions of Iroha running in parallel, they might need to
replicate the support work as many times as there are parallel
versions.

Instead of attempting to support multiple versions badly, we try to
cater to 80% of use cases with 20% of the effort and reach a
compromise between supporting every released version equally and only
supporting the latest stable version.

Specifically, we support the latest =stable= release. Often this
release is either not as well-tested, well-documented, or
well-supported by the SDKs, in addition to often changing in terms of
its API and ABI, resulting in a moving target for compatibility. For

> this reason we designate a specific version that is at least one of 12

Reviewer: I guess we should refer to our monthly cadence right here, because 12 releases might sound confusing, alternatively we could just specify smth like "once a year"

releases to be the Long-term supported release following the criteria
listed below.

* LTS selection criteria

The following is a non-exhaustive list of recommended considerations
for selecting a particular version as an LTS candidate

1. The release should be /unlikely/ to contain major /known/ issues which
   would preclude it from being useful.

   More specifically, the release should have a good coverage of a

>    basic use-case, for example, RC-6 was the last release which

Reviewer: I'd also suggest elaborating a bit on 'RC' labelling itself (agreed ~monthly build etc) or placing a reference if that's described somewhere else

Reviewer 2: I am confused by RC (release candidate) labelling in general. In fact, none of the releases were "release candidates", but more likely alpha- or beta- releases. IMO, release candidate implies feature freeze.

Also, we actually don't have RCs, but _pre_ RCs: `2.0.0-pre-rc.6`

   such it was labelled as an LTS release despite being less-well
   tested.

   Releases RC8, RC12, RC13 and RC17 were disqualified based on this
   criterion.

2. If there is a large feature that entails an API breakage, the
   release that has the most stable version of the "old way of doing
   things" should be prioritised as an LTS candidate.

   For example, RC12 and RC13, were the last versions of Iroha that
   still used a hard-coded permission validator. Them being labelled
   as an LTS candidate was precluded by the major known issues,
   particularly with stability, poor coverage, and because releasing
   an LTS after RC9 would have split the development resources off
   from fixing the issue of rigid un-modifiable permission validators.

   RC14 and RC15 on the other hand, were in the process of a slow
   migration of features. As such, the latter versions would be
   considered direct upgrades over the previous one, having more
   optimisations and better feature coverage.

3. The release must be feature complete for a use-case.

   This is different to point 1, because while RC10 and RC13 were free
   from major problems, they did not offer sufficiently full coverage

>    of the features required for an internal project.

Reviewer: Iroha is an open source project, we have few references to internal projects, I'm totally fine with that, though just for an idea, how about rephrasing that to something like 'Iroha's technical committee decision' (which is obviously represented by the most active contributors)
```suggestion
   of the features the technical committee has been guided the implementation by.
```
